Welcome back in we left off the previous lesson with an exercise.
Updating the code and being able to actually create some gameplay out of this.
So earlier we saw how we can pull back a value of a country using a rest and point and using that Jaison
data parsing it into usable object in Javascript.
So next that we need to do is we need to add an event listener.
So we saw we've got an event listener that we're adding to my button so we can really easily just kind
of duplicate what we did over here.
And instead of firing off the loader will fire off the gas and we just need to update that button.
So the button for this one is my guess.
It's not my button my guess.
So there we go.
So that's already we're all hooked up.
The next that we need to do is grab the value of the gas.
So this is just the input and we've got an ID there so we can just do variable yes or we call it variable
g and document get element by id and the element is yes and we need to return back to the values Samoa's
we'll do that at this point as well.
So we already know that we have the word within nickname so we need to loop through the length of pick
a name and we saw that we could do that earlier as well or we could do pick name length so we can literally
copy what we did up there and loop through all the letters.
So now we're looping through the length of nickname and we need to make a comparison.
And we also need to make sure that we utilize the tools that were case method to bring it down to the
lower case.
So let's do a check.
And there's actually one thing that I did want to add in here we can get rid of this line and I did
want to actually have a break here that in case x is longer than or equal to the length of the guess
then I want to break this loop so I don't want it to loop over so if the users only if if because we're
looping through the name of the length of the name if the guess is over here then let's break this loop
at the first two characters so we don't need to keep comparing characters.
If this length is already if we've already broken past that value.
So this is where we can use break.
And basically that will stop the rest of the loop from executing.
So next thing that we need to do is we need to make a check condition.
So we have to check to see if the letter at this current position is equal to the letter at 4 pick name
at that position and we know that we saw earlier and we're using our words when we're using javascript
string values that we can see different characters at different points.
If we do if we have a word or string value we can bracket it just like we did with arrays and we can
see that value.
So that's what we're going to do now.
So we're going to do g and X because that's where we're.
Loop through.
So now we're applying our condition.
So we're going to check to see if G x is equal to
the value of the name.
So pick name X
and we also need to transform the use to lowercase.
So that's another thing that we can do.
And there's a number of ways to do that so let's add that in within the shuffle.
So we're going to do response and we're going to do response to lower case so that will take care of
the lower case within the output.
So we don't have that uppercase letter anymore.
And over here so we've got our pick name is still going to be lower case on the output.
So that's another one that we still need to take care of.
So we need to add in that method to lower case here as well.
And we also need to update those inputs to lowercase as well as a number of different places that we
had to add this lowercase this is just to make sure that the case is the same so that doesn't matter
if the user puts uppercase or lowercase we can do that still do that proper comparison.
So also we need to have a holder.
So this is basically our guess holder.
So user guess and this is what we're going to display on the output.
So this gives us somewhere to either put the correct letter so concatenate it to the correct letter.
And actually what I have to do is are going to transform all of G to lowercase as I think that it's
getting quite a bit complicated.
I'm trying to save time with the methods.
So let's just simplified that one there and we could also put a variable in for the picked name instead
of having that and then we could transform that to lowercase as well.
So now let's also update that output.
So you need to output content and output that we're going to output.
Is that user.
Yes.
So I think we're ready to try this.
Let's go and refresh it.
So let's load a new country and we did get a problem there so let's see what happened.
And actually didn't have the rounded brackets.
And we know with functions that if you don't include the rounded brackets that actually doesn't executed
it actually wrote writes that function out there.
So that's what happened there.
So let's try that again.
And so there we go.
So now we've got our country is to lower case.
And I know some of them are quite long so I know it could be fairly difficult in the game but we can
see that this one probably is hungry and we can't enter in our guess.
So let's go out and try I guess and let's do some wrong letters by mistake here.
So we still have a problem here that we can't read the value of is null.
So we got to do some bug fixing here.
So let's go back in here and let's see what happened.
So we have an idea of guess
and I had written guest instead a guess.
So that was that was why we're throwing another error there.
So let's try this one more time.
So refresh click console and I have no idea what that country is
and obviously I can go into the console I can still see the country.
So let's type Taipan.
So there we go.
And we still need to add the lines in case that's wrong.
So it's update that so user or guess at if the user guesses the wrong letter.
We're going to put the dashes there.
So let's refresh that again.
Loden you country
so do something like that.
And this way we can see how correct guesses.
And then this leaves it up to the user to kind of change the order update some of the letters and do
as they need to until they can finally get the word properly.
So that's it.
And of course there's a lot of room for improvement with this scheme and you can even give people hints.
We've got the flags we've got all kinds of information that's held within pick.
So you can add these as hints within the game.
You can load up the flag if you want.
So a lot of different things that we can do maybe what we want to do add in the flag.
So take a second pause the video add in the flag there.
Whenever we select a new country and I'll show you how to do that as well.
Within this lesson so we had an opportunity to try that out.
And we saw that we can guess a country and the guess and the value.
So let's do a quick one here.
We're going to do image source and right now we're just going to do a blank source and let's set a with
so that doesn't go wait too long.
What do we'll set up with the 300 picks.
So in case the width is going to be way too long we're not going to go overboard with the width of the
image.
So now whenever we load the country we need to update the source.
So we need a way to grab that element.
We can do Querrey selector because we've only got the one image.
So let's go ahead and do it that way so we don't have to set a name.
So wherever we're actually launching the loader we're creating the word guess we're picking out that
random one.
So that's what we're doing that over here.
So let's do that in.
So document
query query selector and we'll just grab the image.
Just don't forget to code around there and let's update the source.
So the or the source is going to be
flag.
So it's true that it refreshed the code see that refresh it.
And whenever we do the new country.
So we get in the flag there and that's added in a space there as well.
So refresh and also maybe let's make this a little bit smaller.
This is turning out to be awfully large.
So new country.
So now we get the flags of the countries and of course you could add an additional data there as hints
for for the user to make the game play a little bit more interesting.
So go ahead take the source code makes a lot updates add some more hints for the user and try out the
game yourself.
And you can also have something that I congratulations if they got all of the characters well as their
characters right as well and we know that if we loop through the length and if we actually we can set
a number here and we can loop through it and we can check to see if they got all the characters right
and if they did then we can have a congratulations message.
So a lot of different things that you can do to update this code to improve it to make it more playable
for users.
But the basics are here that we're able to load the countries from an endpoint using Jaison and Ajax.